Search formStudent Development SchemesYou are hereExplore various, schemes and special scholarship run by AICTE to promote technical educationStudents Development schemesAICTE-Mitacs Globalink Research Internship (GRI) SchemeScheme to foster cross-border partnerships focussed on creating a platform that opens the path for collaborative research between Canada and India to a wider pool of student talent in India.AICTE ‚Äì SWANATH SCHOLARSHIP SCHEMEAICTE has approved 'AICTE ‚Äì SWANATH SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME' for children from any one of the following categories:
           1. Orphan 
           2. Either or both parents died due to Covid-19 
           3. Wards of Armed Forces and Central Paramilitary Forces martyred in action (Shaheed) 
            to provide them financial support of Rs. 50,000/- per annum for every year of study.AICTE - YOUTH UNDERTAKING VISIT FOR ACQUIRING KNOWLEDGE (YUVAK)AICTE Scheme for study tour of ATAL TUNNEL, Himachal Pradesh‚Äì YOUTH UNDERTAKING VISIT FOR ACQUIRING KNOWLEDGE (YUVAK)AICTE LILAVATI AWARDAICTE intends to seek applications for AICTEs LILAVATI AWARD-2021-22 based on the theme ‚ÄúWomen Empowerment‚Äù from the eligible teams of AICTE approved institutions, who have undertaken remarkable intervention for the cause and made an impact that showcases their work under eight different sub-themes.PG ScholarshipScholarship is awarded to full time GATE/GPAT qualified students admitted to M.E./ M. Tech/ M. Arch and M.Pharma courses in AICTE approved Institutions/Colleges @Rs. 12,400/- PM/ student.AICTE Doctoral Fellowship (ADF)Admitting full time meritorious research scholars by providing research fellowship who wants to seek admission to Ph.D. in AICTE approved Technical Institutes/University Departments for carrying out research in thrust areasPragati ScholarshipScholarship/Contingency is awarded to meritorious girls taking admission in AICTE approved Technical institution at Degree/ Diploma. Total 10000 scholarship are given @ Rs 50000 as incidentals each year.Saksham ScholarshipScholarship/Contingency is awarded  to  Differently  abled students taking admission in AICTE approved Technical institution at Degree/ Diploma. Scholarship given @ Rs 50000 as incidentals each year.Support to Students for Participating in Competition Abroad (SSPCA)The objective of the scheme is to provide travel assistance registration fees to a team of minimum 2 to 10 students for attending competition at international level in order to encourage engineering students to improve their field of technical education.Prime Minister‚Äôs Special Scholarship Scheme ‚Äì PMSSSObjective of the Scheme is to build up capacities in youth of J&K, educate, enable and empowering them to compete in normal course, enhancing and boosting employment potentials in students of J&K. Total 5000 scholarship are given @ Rs. 100000/- as Maintenance Charges and academic fee as Rs. 30000/- to General Degree, Rs. 125000/- to Engineering Degree & Rs. 300000/- to Medical Degree each year.AICTE-INAE TRAVEL GRANT SCHEMEAn ‚ÄúAICTE-INAE Travel Grant Scheme‚Äù for Engineering Students to present papers abroad has been launched for enhancing the quality of engineering education in the country.Smart India Hackathon 2019A unique initiative to identify new and disruptive digital solutions for solving the challenges faced by our country under the program of Smart India Hackathon 2017. This event was held on 1st ‚Äì 2nd April 2017 for 36 hrs non-stop competition. 9544 technology students, 598 problems statements, 29 different central govt. ministries, 26 different Nodal centres & funding of Rs. 3 Lakh per team for 100 qualified teams.M.Tech Projects as Internship with Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)The main objective of the scheme is to nurture an innovation ecosystem that benefits the technologically deficient MSMEs and technical institutes both. 408 Small and Medium Enterprises have given requirement of 738 Technology students.Address InformationSearch formStudent Development SchemesYou are hereExplore various, schemes and special scholarship run by AICTE to promote technical educationStudents Development schemesAICTE-Mitacs Globalink Research Internship (GRI) SchemeScheme to foster cross-border partnerships focussed on creating a platform that opens the path for collaborative research between Canada and India to a wider pool of student talent in India.AICTE ‚Äì SWANATH SCHOLARSHIP SCHEMEAICTE has approved 'AICTE ‚Äì SWANATH SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME' for children from any one of the following categories:
           1. Orphan 
           2. Either or both parents died due to Covid-19 
           3. Wards of Armed Forces and Central Paramilitary Forces martyred in action (Shaheed) 
            to provide them financial support of Rs. 50,000/- per annum for every year of study.AICTE - YOUTH UNDERTAKING VISIT FOR ACQUIRING KNOWLEDGE (YUVAK)AICTE Scheme for study tour of ATAL TUNNEL, Himachal Pradesh‚Äì YOUTH UNDERTAKING VISIT FOR ACQUIRING KNOWLEDGE (YUVAK)AICTE LILAVATI AWARDAICTE intends to seek applications for AICTEs LILAVATI AWARD-2021-22 based on the theme ‚ÄúWomen Empowerment‚Äù from the eligible teams of AICTE approved institutions, who have undertaken remarkable intervention for the cause and made an impact that showcases their work under eight different sub-themes.PG ScholarshipScholarship is awarded to full time GATE/GPAT qualified students admitted to M.E./ M. Tech/ M. Arch and M.Pharma courses in AICTE approved Institutions/Colleges @Rs. 12,400/- PM/ student.AICTE Doctoral Fellowship (ADF)Admitting full time meritorious research scholars by providing research fellowship who wants to seek admission to Ph.D. in AICTE approved Technical Institutes/University Departments for carrying out research in thrust areasPragati ScholarshipScholarship/Contingency is awarded to meritorious girls taking admission in AICTE approved Technical institution at Degree/ Diploma. Total 10000 scholarship are given @ Rs 50000 as incidentals each year.Saksham ScholarshipScholarship/Contingency is awarded  to  Differently  abled students taking admission in AICTE approved Technical institution at Degree/ Diploma. Scholarship given @ Rs 50000 as incidentals each year.Support to Students for Participating in Competition Abroad (SSPCA)The objective of the scheme is to provide travel assistance registration fees to a team of minimum 2 to 10 students for attending competition at international level in order to encourage engineering students to improve their field of technical education.Prime Minister‚Äôs Special Scholarship Scheme ‚Äì PMSSSObjective of the Scheme is to build up capacities in youth of J&K, educate, enable and empowering them to compete in normal course, enhancing and boosting employment potentials in students of J&K. Total 5000 scholarship are given @ Rs. 100000/- as Maintenance Charges and academic fee as Rs. 30000/- to General Degree, Rs. 125000/- to Engineering Degree & Rs. 300000/- to Medical Degree each year.AICTE-INAE TRAVEL GRANT SCHEMEAn ‚ÄúAICTE-INAE Travel Grant Scheme‚Äù for Engineering Students to present papers abroad has been launched for enhancing the quality of engineering education in the country.Smart India Hackathon 2019A unique initiative to identify new and disruptive digital solutions for solving the challenges faced by our country under the program of Smart India Hackathon 2017. This event was held on 1st ‚Äì 2nd April 2017 for 36 hrs non-stop competition. 9544 technology students, 598 problems statements, 29 different central govt. ministries, 26 different Nodal centres & funding of Rs. 3 Lakh per team for 100 qualified teams.M.Tech Projects as Internship with Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)The main objective of the scheme is to nurture an innovation ecosystem that benefits the technologically deficient MSMEs and technical institutes both. 408 Small and Medium Enterprises have given requirement of 738 Technology students.Address InformationWhat is LDCE?
LDCE is a CollegeLaunch of SWAYAM MOOCís platform
Honíble President of India, Honíble Shri Pranab Mukherjee attended the launch of SWAYAM, 32 SWAYAM Prabha DTH Channels and National Academic Depository at the National Convention on Digital Initiatives organized by Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India today (July 9, 2017) in New Delhi.

Speaking on the occasion, the Honíble President said that the spread of technology, telecom penetration and internet has offered an opportunity to quell the divide in terms of access and quality. And, we should seize this opportunity with both our hands. Digital technology enables good teachers to directly teach large number of students who are not physically present in classes. ICT solutions offer an interactive learning experience through which students in remote parts of the country can benefit from lectures of the top teachers. The digital modes are cheaper, more easily accessible, interactive, and offer flexibility for people to learn at their own pace. We need to work together to ensure that they are widely adopted for teaching.

Honíble President said that he was happy that the SWAYAM portal has become fully functional which enables one to take courses offered by the best teachers, remaining where they are. SWAYAM should be a call to the pioneers amongst teachers to put new courses in the upcoming areas on this platform in the MOOCs format. It is also a call to the other teachers to use this material and improve their own teaching capacity. Ultimately, it should lead to better attainment levels in the students.

Honíble President said that the use of satellite technology to reach the unreached is time-tested. He was happy to note that the scale and reach of this technology has been raised manifold through the 32 SWAYAM Prabha DTH channels. These channels will help students in the rural areas and in the remote areas where IT infrastructure have not penetrated so well.Launch of SWAYAM MOOCís platform
Honíble President of India, Honíble Shri Pranab Mukherjee attended the launch of SWAYAM, 32 SWAYAM Prabha DTH Channels and National Academic Depository at the National Convention on Digital Initiatives organized by Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India today (July 9, 2017) in New Delhi.Speaking on the occasion, the Honíble President said that the spread of technology, telecom penetration and internet has offered an opportunity to quell the divide in terms of access and quality. And, we should seize this opportunity with both our hands. Digital technology enables good teachers to directly teach large number of students who are not physically present in classes. ICT solutions offer an interactive learning experience through which students in remote parts of the country can benefit from lectures of the top teachers. The digital modes are cheaper, more easily accessible, interactive, and offer flexibility for people to learn at their own pace. We need to work together to ensure that they are widely adopted for teaching. Honíble President said that he was happy that the SWAYAM portal has become fully functional which enables one to take courses offered by the best teachers, remaining where they are. SWAYAM should be a call to the pioneers amongst teachers to put new courses in the upcoming areas on this platform in the MOOCs format. It is also a call to the other teachers to use this material and improve their own teaching capacity. Ultimately, it should lead to better attainment levels in the students.Honíble President said that the use of satellite technology to reach the unreached is time-tested. He was happy to note that the scale and reach of this technology has been raised manifold through the 32 SWAYAM Prabha DTH channels. These channels will help students in the rural areas and in the remote areas where IT infrastructure have not penetrated so well.Launch of SWAYAM MOOCís platform .Honíble President of India, Honíble Shri Pranab Mukherjee attended the launch of SWAYAM, 32 SWAYAM Prabha DTH Channels and National Academic Depository at the National Convention on Digital Initiatives organized by Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India today (July 9, 2017) in New Delhi.Speaking on the occasion, the Honíble President said that the spread of technology, telecom penetration and internet has offered an opportunity to quell the divide in terms of access and quality. And, we should seize this opportunity with both our hands. Digital technology enables good teachers to directly teach large number of students who are not physically present in classes. ICT solutions offer an interactive learning experience through which students in remote parts of the country can benefit from lectures of the top teachers. The digital modes are cheaper, more easily accessible, interactive, and offer flexibility for people to learn at their own pace. We need to work together to ensure that they are widely adopted for teaching. Honíble President said that he was happy that the SWAYAM portal has become fully functional which enables one to take courses offered by the best teachers, remaining where they are. SWAYAM should be a call to the pioneers amongst teachers to put new courses in the upcoming areas on this platform in the MOOCs format. It is also a call to the other teachers to use this material and improve their own teaching capacity. Ultimately, it should lead to better attainment levels in the students.Honíble President said that the use of satellite technology to reach the unreached is time-tested. He was happy to note that the scale and reach of this technology has been raised manifold through the 32 SWAYAM Prabha DTH channels. These channels will help students in the rural areas and in the remote areas where IT infrastructure have not penetrated so well.